---
layout: page
breadcrumb: true

subheadline:  "Research"
title:  "Current Research"
teaser: "What I'm currently up to."
categories:
    - about
tags:
    - about
    - research
header:
    image_fullwidth: "header_6.jpg"
permalink: "/about/current/"
---


I am currently a first year post-doc at Vanderbilt University, and my current research focuses on building and applying data science tools to understand phenotypic heterogeneity and plasticity in Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC). In my work, I have used and created new computational modeling techniques and bioinformatic analyses to single cell transcriptomics, such as trajectory inference and subtype identification. I contributed to the development of a tool called <a href=' https://smgroves.github.io/projects/booleabayes/'>BooleaBayes</a> that using bulk RNA sequencing data to derive gene regulatory network models. A less jargon-y description of this method can be found in my blog post series starting <a href=' https://smgroves.github.io/projects/booleabayes/1'>here.</a> I have applied this tool to other cancer types and non-cancer systems such as diabetes and development, which are highlighted in my recent publications. I am currently developing a version of this tool that can be used with pseudo-temporal single cell sequencing data.

Finally, an aim of my research is to quantify phenotypic plasticity by developing feature selection methods and statistical models in large datasets, such as scRNA-seq. I have placed SCLC cell types within a framework known as archetype analysis, which suggests underlying evolutionary mechanisms that may explain the existence of several stable subtypes. I then define a metric of plasticity to evaluate the ability of cells to transition to other phenotypes relative to archetype space. These methods are detailed in my publication <a href='https://www.cell.com/cell-systems/fulltext/S2405-4712(22)00313-1'>here</a> and the blog post series <a href=' https://smgroves.github.io/projects/mazebox/'>here.</a> 